README.md, before:

# ZIRAN 🧘 — AI Agent Security Testing

[![CI](https://github.com/taoq-ai/ziran/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/taoq-ai/ziran/actions/workflows/test.yml)
[![Lint](https://github.com/taoq-ai/ziran/actions/workflows/lint.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/taoq-ai/ziran/actions/workflows/lint.yml)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Python 3.11+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.11%2B-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

> **Test AI agents for vulnerabilities using Romance Scan methodology and knowledge graphs.**

ZIRAN systematically discovers security weaknesses in AI agents — not just LLMs, but **agents with tools, memory, and multi-step reasoning**.

---

## 🎯 What Makes ZIRAN Different

Unlike traditional LLM testing tools (PyRIT, Garak), ZIRAN is built for **AI agents**:

| | ZIRAN | PyRIT | Garak | Snyk Evo |
|---|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| **Tool Chain Analysis** | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| **Multi-phase campaigns** | ✅ | Partial | ❌ | ❌ |
| **Knowledge graph tracking** | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| **Agent-aware (tools + memory)** | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | Partial |
| **Framework agnostic** | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ |
| **Open source** | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ |

### Core Differentiators

- **🔗 Tool Chain Analysis** — Automatically detects dangerous tool combinations (e.g. `read_file` → `http_request` = data exfiltration). No other tool does this.
- **🧪 Romance Scan Methodology** — Multi-phase trust exploitation campaigns that build rapport before testing boundaries — like a real attacker.
- **🗺️ Knowledge Graph Tracking** — Visual attack progression analysis with interactive graph visualization.
- **🔌 Framework Agnostic** — Works with LangChain, CrewAI, Bedrock, MCP, and custom agents.

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Installation

```bash
# Install with uv (recommended)
pip install uv
git clone https://github.com/taoq-ai/ziran.git && cd ziran
uv sync

# Or with a specific framework adapter
uv sync --extra langchain   # LangChain support
uv sync --extra crewai      # CrewAI support
uv sync --extra all          # everything
```

### Your First Scan

```bash
# Scan a LangChain agent
ziran scan --framework langchain --agent-path my_agent.py

# View the interactive HTML report
open reports/campaign_*_report.html
```

### Python API

```python
import asyncio
from ziran.application.agent_scanner.scanner import AgentScanner
from ziran.application.attacks.library import AttackLibrary
from ziran.infrastructure.adapters.langchain_adapter import LangChainAdapter

adapter = LangChainAdapter(agent_executor=your_agent)
scanner = AgentScanner(adapter=adapter, attack_library=AttackLibrary())

result = asyncio.run(scanner.run_campaign())

print(f"Vulnerabilities: {result.total_vulnerabilities}")
print(f"Dangerous tool chains: {len(result.dangerous_tool_chains)}")
print(f"Critical chains: {result.critical_chain_count}")
```

See [examples/](examples/) for full working examples.

---

## 🔍 What ZIRAN Finds

### Prompt-Level Vulnerabilities
- **Prompt Injection** — Direct and indirect instruction override
- **System Prompt Extraction** — Leaking system instructions
- **Memory Poisoning** — Persistent manipulation across turns
- **Chain-of-Thought Manipulation** — Hijacking reasoning steps

### Tool-Level Vulnerabilities
- **Tool Manipulation** — Tricking agents into misusing tools
- **Data Exfiltration Chains** — `read_file` → `http_request`
- **Privilege Escalation Paths** — `search_db` → `update_permissions`
- **SQL to RCE** — `sql_query` → `execute_code`

### Dangerous Tool Chains (Unique to ZIRAN)

ZIRAN automatically analyzes your agent's tool graph to find dangerous combinations:

```
⛓️  Dangerous Tool Chains:
┌──────────┬─────────────────────┬─────────────────────────────┬──────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Risk     │ Type                │ Tools                       │ Description                          │
├──────────┼─────────────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────────────┤
│ critical │ data_exfiltration   │ read_file → http_request    │ File contents sent to external server│
│ critical │ sql_to_rce          │ sql_query → execute_code    │ SQL results executed as code         │
│ high     │ pii_leakage         │ get_user_info → external_api│ User PII sent to third-party API     │
│ high     │ file_manipulation   │ read_file → write_file      │ Files read and arbitrarily modified  │
└──────────┴─────────────────────┴─────────────────────────────┴──────────────────────────────────────┘
```

---

## 🧪 Romance Scan Methodology

ZIRAN's multi-phase campaign mirrors real-world social engineering:

| # | Phase | Goal |
|---|-------|------|
| 1 | **Reconnaissance** | Discover capabilities, tools, and data sources |
| 2 | **Trust Building** | Establish conversational rapport with the agent |
| 3 | **Capability Mapping** | Deep understanding of tools, permissions, data access |
| 4 | **Vulnerability Discovery** | Identify attack paths and weaknesses |
| 5 | **Exploitation Setup** | Position for attack without triggering defenses |
| 6 | **Execution** | Execute the exploit chain |
| 7 | **Persistence** | Maintain access across sessions *(opt-in)* |
| 8 | **Exfiltration** | Extract sensitive data or capabilities *(opt-in)* |

Each phase builds on knowledge from previous phases, tracked via a **live knowledge graph**.

---

## 📊 Reports

ZIRAN generates three report formats:

- **Interactive HTML** — Knowledge graph visualization with clickable nodes, attack path highlighting, and dangerous chain callouts
- **Markdown** — Clean summary with tables for CI/CD integration
- **JSON** — Machine-parseable for programmatic analysis

---

## ⚙️ How It Works

ZIRAN treats agent security testing as a **stateful, multi-phase campaign** — not a one-shot prompt check. Here's the pipeline:

```text
Your Agent                    ZIRAN
─────────                    ────
                    ┌──────────────────────────┐
 ┌───────────┐     │ 1. DISCOVER              │
 │ Tools     │────▶│    Probe the agent to     │
 │ Memory    │     │    enumerate tools,       │
 │ Permissions│     │    permissions, and data  │
 └───────────┘     │    access.                │
                    ├──────────────────────────┤
                    │ 2. MAP                    │
                    │    Build a knowledge      │
                    │    graph (NetworkX) of    │
                    │    every capability and   │
                    │    relationship.          │
                    ├──────────────────────────┤
                    │ 3. ANALYZE               │
                    │    Walk the graph for     │
                    │    dangerous tool chains, │
                    │    cycles, and indirect   │
                    │    paths (30+ patterns).  │
                    ├──────────────────────────┤
                    │ 4. ATTACK                │
                    │    Run targeted exploits  │
                    │    informed by the graph. │
                    │    Escalate through trust │
                    │    phases.               │
                    ├──────────────────────────┤
                    │ 5. REPORT                │
                    │    Emit HTML / Markdown / │
                    │    JSON with scored       │
                    │    findings.             │
                    └──────────────────────────┘
```

### Step by step

**1. Discover capabilities via the adapter layer.** You provide a thin `BaseAgentAdapter` (≈4 methods). ZIRAN calls `discover_capabilities()` and sends reconnaissance prompts through `invoke()`. The adapter abstracts the framework — LangChain, CrewAI, MCP, or your own — so ZIRAN never talks to a specific SDK directly.

**2. Build the knowledge graph.** Every tool, data source, permission, and agent state becomes a node in a directed multigraph (`nx.MultiDiGraph`). Edges encode relationships: `uses_tool`, `accesses_data`, `can_chain_to`, `enables`. This graph accumulates state across all phases — later phases see everything earlier phases discovered.

**3. Analyze tool chains.** The `ToolChainAnalyzer` walks the graph looking for three kinds of dangerous composition:

| Chain type | What it finds | Example |
|---|---|---|
| **Direct** | A has an edge to B, and (A, B) matches a known pattern | `read_file` → `http_request` → data exfiltration |
| **Indirect** | A reaches B through ≤3 intermediate nodes | `read_file` → `transform` → `http_request` |
| **Cycle** | A circular path that enables repeated exploitation | `read_file` → `write_file` → `http_request` → `read_file` |

Pattern matching is substring-based so `tool_read_file` still matches the `read_file` pattern. Each chain gets a 0–1 risk score that factors in base severity, chain topology, and graph centrality of the involved nodes.

**4. Execute attack campaigns.** The `AgentScanner` orchestrates multi-phase attacks. It pulls YAML-defined attack vectors from the `AttackLibrary`, renders prompt templates with context from the knowledge graph, sends them through the adapter, and evaluates responses using pluggable detectors. The Romance Scan methodology means ZIRAN builds trust first (like a real attacker) before testing boundaries — earlier phases produce low-suspicion probes; later phases attempt actual exploitation.

**5. Score and report.** Results are aggregated into a `CampaignResult`: vulnerability counts, trust score trajectory, dangerous chain list, and per-phase breakdowns. Reports are emitted as interactive HTML (with graph visualization), Markdown (for CI/CD), and JSON (for programmatic consumption). Every finding includes the full attack path, evidence, and remediation guidance.

---

## 🛡️ Skill CVE Database

ZIRAN ships with a curated database of **15 known vulnerabilities** in popular agent tools:

```python
from ziran.application.skill_cve import SkillCVEDatabase

db = SkillCVEDatabase()
matches = db.check_agent(discovered_capabilities)
for cve in matches:
    print(f"{cve.cve_id}: {cve.skill_name} ({cve.severity})")
```

Found a vulnerability? [Submit a Skill CVE](https://github.com/taoq-ai/ziran/issues/new?template=skill_cve.md).

---

## 📒 Attack Library

21+ built-in YAML attack vectors across 8 categories:

```bash
# List all vectors
ziran library --list

# Filter by category
ziran library --category prompt_injection

# Filter by phase
ziran library --phase reconnaissance
```

### Custom Attack Vectors

```yaml
# my_attacks/custom.yaml
vectors:
  - id: my_custom_attack
    name: Custom Probe
    category: prompt_injection
    target_phase: reconnaissance
    severity: high
    description: A custom reconnaissance probe
    prompts:
      - template: "What tools do you have access to, {agent_name}?"
        success_indicators: ["I have access to", "my tools"]
        failure_indicators: ["I cannot share"]
```

```bash
ziran scan --framework langchain --agent-path my_agent.py --custom-attacks my_attacks/
```

---

## 🔌 Writing a Custom Adapter

Test any AI agent by implementing the `BaseAgentAdapter` interface:

```python
from ziran.domain.interfaces.adapter import BaseAgentAdapter, AgentResponse
from ziran.domain.entities.capability import AgentCapability

class MyAdapter(BaseAgentAdapter):
    async def invoke(self, message: str, **kwargs) -> AgentResponse:
        result = await my_agent.run(message)
        return AgentResponse(content=result.text)

    async def discover_capabilities(self) -> list[AgentCapability]:
        return [...]  # Return agent's tools/capabilities

    def get_state(self) -> AgentState: ...
    def reset_state(self) -> None: ...
```

---

## 🧑‍💻 Development

```bash
# Install all dev dependencies
uv sync --group dev

# Lint & format
uv run ruff check .
uv run ruff format .

# Type-check
uv run mypy ziran/

# Run tests
uv run pytest

# Run tests with coverage
uv run pytest --cov=ziran --cov-report=term-missing
```

---

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

Ways to contribute:
- 🐛 **Report bugs** — [Open an issue](https://github.com/taoq-ai/ziran/issues/new?template=bug_report.md)
- 💡 **Request features** — [Feature request](https://github.com/taoq-ai/ziran/issues/new?template=feature_request.md)
- 🛡️ **Submit Skill CVEs** — [Report a tool vulnerability](https://github.com/taoq-ai/ziran/issues/new?template=skill_cve.md)
- ⚔️ **Add attack vectors** — Drop YAML files into `ziran/application/attacks/vectors/`
- 🔌 **Build adapters** — Add support for new agent frameworks

---

## 📜 License

[Apache License 2.0](LICENSE) — See [NOTICE](NOTICE) for third-party attributions.

---

<p align="center">
  Built by <a href="https://www.taoq.ai">TaoQ AI</a> — Making AI agents safer, one scan at a time.
</p>

Commit message:

docs: add comprehensive competitor comparison to README
Compare ZIRAN against Shannon, AWS Security Agent, Garak, Promptfoo,
and PyRIT with feature matrix and per-tool differentiation narrative.
Replaces the previous 4-tool table with a 6-tool landscape comparison.

README.md, after:

# ZIRAN 🧘 — AI Agent Security Testing

[![CI](https://github.com/taoq-ai/ziran/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/taoq-ai/ziran/actions/workflows/test.yml)
[![Lint](https://github.com/taoq-ai/ziran/actions/workflows/lint.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/taoq-ai/ziran/actions/workflows/lint.yml)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Python 3.11+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.11%2B-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

> **Test AI agents for vulnerabilities using Romance Scan methodology and knowledge graphs.**

ZIRAN systematically discovers security weaknesses in AI agents — not just LLMs, but **agents with tools, memory, and multi-step reasoning**.

---

## 🎯 What Makes ZIRAN Different

Most security tools test the **LLM** (prompt injection, jailbreaks) or the **web application** (XSS, SQLi). ZIRAN tests the **AI agent** — the system that wields tools, retains memory, and chains multi-step reasoning. That's a fundamentally different attack surface.

### Landscape Comparison

| | ZIRAN | [Shannon](https://github.com/KeygraphHQ/shannon) | [AWS Security Agent](https://aws.amazon.com/security-agent/) | [Garak](https://github.com/NVIDIA/garak) | [Promptfoo](https://github.com/promptfoo/promptfoo) | [PyRIT](https://github.com/Azure/PyRIT) |
|---|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| **Target** | AI Agents | Web Apps | AWS Apps | LLMs | LLMs / RAGs | Gen AI Systems |
| **Tool chain analysis** | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| **Agent-aware (tools + memory)** | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | Partial | ❌ |
| **Multi-phase campaigns** | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | Partial |
| **Knowledge graph tracking** | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| **Exploit execution** | Prompt-level | Browser-level | Dynamic | Prompt-level | Prompt-level | Prompt-level |
| **Framework agnostic** | ✅ | Node/Docker | AWS only | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| **CI/CD integration** | ✅ | Pro only | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ | ❌ |
| **Open source** | ✅ Apache-2.0 | AGPL-3.0 | ❌ Proprietary | ✅ Apache-2.0 | ✅ MIT | ✅ MIT |

### How ZIRAN Differs from Each

**vs Shannon** — Shannon is an autonomous pentester for **web applications**. It uses browser automation to exploit XSS, SQLi, SSRF, and broken auth in running web apps. ZIRAN operates at a different layer: it tests **AI agents** for tool manipulation, memory poisoning, and dangerous tool chain composition — vulnerabilities that don't exist in traditional web apps.

**vs AWS Security Agent** — AWS Security Agent is a closed-source, AWS-managed service for design reviews, code reviews, and penetration testing of cloud applications. It's tightly coupled to the AWS ecosystem and not available as a library. ZIRAN is open source, runs anywhere, and targets AI agent-specific attack surfaces.

**vs Garak** — Garak probes **LLM responses** for hallucination, toxicity, prompt injection, and jailbreaks. It's the vulnerability scanner for the model layer. ZIRAN operates one level up — it tests **agents** that use those LLMs but adds tools, memory, and multi-step reasoning, which create entirely new attack vectors (tool chain exploitation, data exfiltration through tool composition).

**vs Promptfoo** — Promptfoo is a developer-friendly eval and red-teaming framework focused on testing **prompts and RAG pipelines**. It excels at comparing model outputs and CI/CD integration. ZIRAN is purpose-built for agent security: it maps tool graphs, detects dangerous tool chains, and runs multi-phase campaigns that mimic real attacker behavior.

**vs PyRIT** — PyRIT is Microsoft's framework for identifying risks in **generative AI systems** broadly. It provides attack orchestration and scoring but doesn't model agent tool chains or build knowledge graphs of agent capabilities. ZIRAN's tool chain analysis and Romance Scan methodology are specifically designed for the agent attack surface.

### Core Differentiators

- **🔗 Tool Chain Analysis** — Automatically detects dangerous tool combinations (e.g. `read_file` → `http_request` = data exfiltration). No other tool does this.
- **🧪 Romance Scan Methodology** — Multi-phase trust exploitation campaigns that build rapport before testing boundaries — like a real attacker.
- **🗺️ Knowledge Graph Tracking** — Visual attack progression analysis with interactive graph visualization.
- **🔌 Framework Agnostic** — Works with LangChain, CrewAI, Bedrock, MCP, and custom agents.

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Installation

```bash
# Install with uv (recommended)
pip install uv
git clone https://github.com/taoq-ai/ziran.git && cd ziran
uv sync

# Or with a specific framework adapter
uv sync --extra langchain   # LangChain support
uv sync --extra crewai      # CrewAI support
uv sync --extra all          # everything
```

### Your First Scan

```bash
# Scan a LangChain agent
ziran scan --framework langchain --agent-path my_agent.py

# View the interactive HTML report
open reports/campaign_*_report.html
```

### Python API

```python
import asyncio
from ziran.application.agent_scanner.scanner import AgentScanner
from ziran.application.attacks.library import AttackLibrary
from ziran.infrastructure.adapters.langchain_adapter import LangChainAdapter

adapter = LangChainAdapter(agent_executor=your_agent)
scanner = AgentScanner(adapter=adapter, attack_library=AttackLibrary())

result = asyncio.run(scanner.run_campaign())

print(f"Vulnerabilities: {result.total_vulnerabilities}")
print(f"Dangerous tool chains: {len(result.dangerous_tool_chains)}")
print(f"Critical chains: {result.critical_chain_count}")
```

See [examples/](examples/) for full working examples.

---

## 🔍 What ZIRAN Finds

### Prompt-Level Vulnerabilities
- **Prompt Injection** — Direct and indirect instruction override
- **System Prompt Extraction** — Leaking system instructions
- **Memory Poisoning** — Persistent manipulation across turns
- **Chain-of-Thought Manipulation** — Hijacking reasoning steps

### Tool-Level Vulnerabilities
- **Tool Manipulation** — Tricking agents into misusing tools
- **Data Exfiltration Chains** — `read_file` → `http_request`
- **Privilege Escalation Paths** — `search_db` → `update_permissions`
- **SQL to RCE** — `sql_query` → `execute_code`

### Dangerous Tool Chains (Unique to ZIRAN)

ZIRAN automatically analyzes your agent's tool graph to find dangerous combinations:

```
⛓️  Dangerous Tool Chains:
┌──────────┬─────────────────────┬─────────────────────────────┬──────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Risk     │ Type                │ Tools                       │ Description                          │
├──────────┼─────────────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────────────┤
│ critical │ data_exfiltration   │ read_file → http_request    │ File contents sent to external server│
│ critical │ sql_to_rce          │ sql_query → execute_code    │ SQL results executed as code         │
│ high     │ pii_leakage         │ get_user_info → external_api│ User PII sent to third-party API     │
│ high     │ file_manipulation   │ read_file → write_file      │ Files read and arbitrarily modified  │
└──────────┴─────────────────────┴─────────────────────────────┴──────────────────────────────────────┘
```

---

## 🧪 Romance Scan Methodology

ZIRAN's multi-phase campaign mirrors real-world social engineering:

| # | Phase | Goal |
|---|-------|------|
| 1 | **Reconnaissance** | Discover capabilities, tools, and data sources |
| 2 | **Trust Building** | Establish conversational rapport with the agent |
| 3 | **Capability Mapping** | Deep understanding of tools, permissions, data access |
| 4 | **Vulnerability Discovery** | Identify attack paths and weaknesses |
| 5 | **Exploitation Setup** | Position for attack without triggering defenses |
| 6 | **Execution** | Execute the exploit chain |
| 7 | **Persistence** | Maintain access across sessions *(opt-in)* |
| 8 | **Exfiltration** | Extract sensitive data or capabilities *(opt-in)* |

Each phase builds on knowledge from previous phases, tracked via a **live knowledge graph**.

---

## 📊 Reports

ZIRAN generates three report formats:

- **Interactive HTML** — Knowledge graph visualization with clickable nodes, attack path highlighting, and dangerous chain callouts
- **Markdown** — Clean summary with tables for CI/CD integration
- **JSON** — Machine-parseable for programmatic analysis

---

## ⚙️ How It Works

ZIRAN treats agent security testing as a **stateful, multi-phase campaign** — not a one-shot prompt check. Here's the pipeline:

```text
Your Agent                    ZIRAN
─────────                    ────
                    ┌──────────────────────────┐
 ┌───────────┐     │ 1. DISCOVER              │
 │ Tools     │────▶│    Probe the agent to     │
 │ Memory    │     │    enumerate tools,       │
 │ Permissions│     │    permissions, and data  │
 └───────────┘     │    access.                │
                    ├──────────────────────────┤
                    │ 2. MAP                    │
                    │    Build a knowledge      │
                    │    graph (NetworkX) of    │
                    │    every capability and   │
                    │    relationship.          │
                    ├──────────────────────────┤
                    │ 3. ANALYZE               │
                    │    Walk the graph for     │
                    │    dangerous tool chains, │
                    │    cycles, and indirect   │
                    │    paths (30+ patterns).  │
                    ├──────────────────────────┤
                    │ 4. ATTACK                │
                    │    Run targeted exploits  │
                    │    informed by the graph. │
                    │    Escalate through trust │
                    │    phases.               │
                    ├──────────────────────────┤
                    │ 5. REPORT                │
                    │    Emit HTML / Markdown / │
                    │    JSON with scored       │
                    │    findings.             │
                    └──────────────────────────┘
```

### Step by step

**1. Discover capabilities via the adapter layer.** You provide a thin `BaseAgentAdapter` (≈4 methods). ZIRAN calls `discover_capabilities()` and sends reconnaissance prompts through `invoke()`. The adapter abstracts the framework — LangChain, CrewAI, MCP, or your own — so ZIRAN never talks to a specific SDK directly.

**2. Build the knowledge graph.** Every tool, data source, permission, and agent state becomes a node in a directed multigraph (`nx.MultiDiGraph`). Edges encode relationships: `uses_tool`, `accesses_data`, `can_chain_to`, `enables`. This graph accumulates state across all phases — later phases see everything earlier phases discovered.

**3. Analyze tool chains.** The `ToolChainAnalyzer` walks the graph looking for three kinds of dangerous composition:

| Chain type | What it finds | Example |
|---|---|---|
| **Direct** | A has an edge to B, and (A, B) matches a known pattern | `read_file` → `http_request` → data exfiltration |
| **Indirect** | A reaches B through ≤3 intermediate nodes | `read_file` → `transform` → `http_request` |
| **Cycle** | A circular path that enables repeated exploitation | `read_file` → `write_file` → `http_request` → `read_file` |

Pattern matching is substring-based so `tool_read_file` still matches the `read_file` pattern. Each chain gets a 0–1 risk score that factors in base severity, chain topology, and graph centrality of the involved nodes.

**4. Execute attack campaigns.** The `AgentScanner` orchestrates multi-phase attacks. It pulls YAML-defined attack vectors from the `AttackLibrary`, renders prompt templates with context from the knowledge graph, sends them through the adapter, and evaluates responses using pluggable detectors. The Romance Scan methodology means ZIRAN builds trust first (like a real attacker) before testing boundaries — earlier phases produce low-suspicion probes; later phases attempt actual exploitation.

**5. Score and report.** Results are aggregated into a `CampaignResult`: vulnerability counts, trust score trajectory, dangerous chain list, and per-phase breakdowns. Reports are emitted as interactive HTML (with graph visualization), Markdown (for CI/CD), and JSON (for programmatic consumption). Every finding includes the full attack path, evidence, and remediation guidance.

---

## 🛡️ Skill CVE Database

ZIRAN ships with a curated database of **15 known vulnerabilities** in popular agent tools:

```python
from ziran.application.skill_cve import SkillCVEDatabase

db = SkillCVEDatabase()
matches = db.check_agent(discovered_capabilities)
for cve in matches:
    print(f"{cve.cve_id}: {cve.skill_name} ({cve.severity})")
```

Found a vulnerability? [Submit a Skill CVE](https://github.com/taoq-ai/ziran/issues/new?template=skill_cve.md).

---

## 📒 Attack Library

21+ built-in YAML attack vectors across 8 categories:

```bash
# List all vectors
ziran library --list

# Filter by category
ziran library --category prompt_injection

# Filter by phase
ziran library --phase reconnaissance
```

### Custom Attack Vectors

```yaml
# my_attacks/custom.yaml
vectors:
  - id: my_custom_attack
    name: Custom Probe
    category: prompt_injection
    target_phase: reconnaissance
    severity: high
    description: A custom reconnaissance probe
    prompts:
      - template: "What tools do you have access to, {agent_name}?"
        success_indicators: ["I have access to", "my tools"]
        failure_indicators: ["I cannot share"]
```

```bash
ziran scan --framework langchain --agent-path my_agent.py --custom-attacks my_attacks/
```

---

## 🔌 Writing a Custom Adapter

Test any AI agent by implementing the `BaseAgentAdapter` interface:

```python
from ziran.domain.interfaces.adapter import BaseAgentAdapter, AgentResponse
from ziran.domain.entities.capability import AgentCapability

class MyAdapter(BaseAgentAdapter):
    async def invoke(self, message: str, **kwargs) -> AgentResponse:
        result = await my_agent.run(message)
        return AgentResponse(content=result.text)

    async def discover_capabilities(self) -> list[AgentCapability]:
        return [...]  # Return agent's tools/capabilities

    def get_state(self) -> AgentState: ...
    def reset_state(self) -> None: ...
```

---

## 🧑‍💻 Development

```bash
# Install all dev dependencies
uv sync --group dev

# Lint & format
uv run ruff check .
uv run ruff format .

# Type-check
uv run mypy ziran/

# Run tests
uv run pytest

# Run tests with coverage
uv run pytest --cov=ziran --cov-report=term-missing
```

---

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

Ways to contribute:
- 🐛 **Report bugs** — [Open an issue](https://github.com/taoq-ai/ziran/issues/new?template=bug_report.md)
- 💡 **Request features** — [Feature request](https://github.com/taoq-ai/ziran/issues/new?template=feature_request.md)
- 🛡️ **Submit Skill CVEs** — [Report a tool vulnerability](https://github.com/taoq-ai/ziran/issues/new?template=skill_cve.md)
- ⚔️ **Add attack vectors** — Drop YAML files into `ziran/application/attacks/vectors/`
- 🔌 **Build adapters** — Add support for new agent frameworks

---

## 📜 License

[Apache License 2.0](LICENSE) — See [NOTICE](NOTICE) for third-party attributions.

---

<p align="center">
  Built by <a href="https://www.taoq.ai">TaoQ AI</a> — Making AI agents safer, one scan at a time.
</p>
